Things are said to be named 'equivocally' when, though they have
a common name, the definition corresponding with the name differs
for each. Thus, a real man and a figure in a picture can both lay
claim to the name 'animal'; yet these are equivocally so named,
for, though they have a common name, the definition corresponding
with the name differs for each. For should any one define in what
sense each is an animal, his definition in the one case will be
appropriate to that case only.

On the other hand, things are said to be named 'univocally' which
have both the name and the definition answering to the name in
common. A man and an ox are both 'animal', and these are
univocally so named, inasmuch as not only the name, but also the
definition, is the same in both cases: for if a man should state
in what sense each is an animal, the statement in the one case
would be identical with that in the other.

Things are said to be named 'derivatively', which derive their
name from some other name, but differ from it in termination.
Thus the grammarian derives his name from the word 'grammar', and
the courageous man from the word 'courage'.

Part 2

Forms of speech are either simple or composite. Examples of the
latter are such expressions as 'the man runs', 'the man wins'; of
the former 'man', 'ox', 'runs', 'wins'.

Of things themselves some are predicable of a subject, and are
never present in a subject. Thus 'man' is predicable of the
individual man, and is never present in a subject.

By being 'present in a subject' I do not mean present as parts
are present in a whole, but being incapable of existence apart
from the said subject.

Some things, again, are present in a subject, but are never
predicable of a subject. For instance, a certain point of
grammatical knowledge is present in the mind, but is not
predicable of any subject; or again, a certain whiteness may be
present in the body (for colour requires a material basis), yet
it is never predicable of anything.

Other things, again, are both predicable of a subject and present
in a subject. Thus while knowledge is present in the human mind,
it is predicable of grammar.

There is, lastly, a class of things which are neither present in
a subject nor predicable of a subject, such as the individual man
or the individual horse. But, to speak more generally, that which
is individual and has the character of a unit is never predicable
of a subject. Yet in some cases there is nothing to prevent such
being present in a subject. Thus a certain point of grammatical
knowledge is present in a subject.

Part 3

When one thing is predicated of another, all that which is
predicable of the predicate will be predicable also of the
subject. Thus, 'man' is predicated of the individual man; but
'animal' is predicated of 'man'; it will, therefore, be
predicable of the individual man also: for the individual man is
both 'man' and 'animal'.

If genera are different and co-ordinate, their differentiae are
themselves different in kind. Take as an instance the genus
'animal' and the genus 'knowledge'. 'With feet', 'two-footed',
'winged', 'aquatic', are differentiae of 'animal'; the species of
knowledge are not distinguished by the same differentiae. One
species of knowledge does not differ from another in being
'two-footed'.

But where one genus is subordinate to another, there is nothing
to prevent their having the same differentiae: for the greater
class is predicated of the lesser, so that all the differentiae
of the predicate will be differentiae also of the subject.

Part 4

Expressions which are in no way composite signify substance,
quantity, quality, relation, place, time, position, state,
action, or affection. To sketch my meaning roughly, examples of
substance are 'man' or 'the horse', of quantity, such terms as
'two cubits long' or 'three cubits long', of quality, such
attributes as 'white', 'grammatical'. 'Double', 'half',
'greater', fall under the category of relation; 'in a the market
place', 'in the Lyceum', under that of place; 'yesterday', 'last
year', under that of time. 'Lying', 'sitting', are terms
indicating position, 'shod', 'armed', state; 'to lance', 'to
cauterize', action; 'to be lanced', 'to be cauterized',
affection.

No one of these terms, in and by itself, involves an affirmation;
it is by the combination of such terms that positive or negative
statements arise. For every assertion must, as is admitted, be
either true or false, whereas expressions which are not in any
way composite such as 'man', 'white', 'runs', 'wins', cannot be
either true or false.

Part 5

Substance, in the truest and primary and most definite sense of
the word, is that which is neither predicable of a subject nor
present in a subject; for instance, the individual man or horse.
But in a secondary sense those things are called substances
within which, as species, the primary substances are included;
also those which, as genera, include the species. For instance,
the individual man is included in the species 'man', and the
genus to which the species belongs is 'animal'; these,
therefore-that is to say, the species 'man' and the genus
'animal,-are termed secondary substances.

It is plain from what has been said that both the name and the
definition of the predicate must be predicable of the subject.
For instance, 'man' is predicted of the individual man. Now in
this case the name of the species man' is applied to the
individual, for we use the term 'man' in describing the
individual; and the definition of 'man' will also be predicated
of the individual man, for the individual man is both man and
animal. Thus, both the name and the definition of the species are
predicable of the individual.

With regard, on the other hand, to those things which are present
in a subject, it is generally the case that neither their name
nor their definition is predicable of that in which they are
present. Though, however, the definition is never predicable,
there is nothing in certain cases to prevent the name being used.
For instance, 'white' being present in a body is predicated of
that in which it is present, for a body is called white: the
definition, however, of the colour white' is never predicable of
the body.

Everything except primary substances is either predicable of a
primary substance or present in a primary substance. This becomes
evident by reference to particular instances which occur.
'Animal' is predicated of the species 'man', therefore of the
individual man, for if there were no individual man of whom it
could be predicated, it could not be predicated of the species
'man' at all. Again, colour is present in body, therefore in
individual bodies, for if there were no individual body in which
it was present, it could not be present in body at all. Thus
everything except primary substances is either predicated of
primary substances, or is present in them, and if these last did
not exist, it would be impossible for anything else to exist.

Of secondary substances, the species is more truly substance than
the genus, being more nearly related to primary substance. For if
any one should render an account of what a primary substance is,
he would render a more instructive account, and one more proper
to the subject, by stating the species than by stating the genus.
Thus, he would give a more instructive account of an individual
man by stating that he was man than by stating that he was
animal, for the former description is peculiar to the individual
in a greater degree, while the latter is too general. Again, the
man who gives an account of the nature of an individual tree will
give a more instructive account by mentioning the species 'tree'
than by mentioning the genus 'plant'.

Moreover, primary substances are most properly called substances
in virtue of the fact that they are the entities which underlie
every. else, and that everything else is either predicated of
them or present in them. Now the same relation which subsists
between primary substance and everything else subsists also
between the species and the genus: for the species is to the
genus as subject is to predicate, since the genus is predicated
of the species, whereas the species cannot be predicated of the
genus. Thus we have a second ground for asserting that the
species is more truly substance than the genus.

Of species themselves, except in the case of such as are genera,
no one is more truly substance than another. We should not give a
more appropriate account of the individual man by stating the
species to which he belonged, than we should of an individual
horse by adopting the same method of definition. In the same way,
of primary substances, no one is more truly substance than
another; an individual man is not more truly substance than an
individual ox.

It is, then, with good reason that of all that remains, when we
exclude primary substances, we concede to species and genera
alone the name 'secondary substance', for these alone of all the
predicates convey a knowledge of primary substance. For it is by
stating the species or the genus that we appropriately define any
individual man; and we shall make our definition more exact by
stating the former than by stating the latter. All other things
that we state, such as that he is white, that he runs, and so on,
are irrelevant to the definition. Thus it is just that these
alone, apart from primary substances, should be called
substances.

Further, primary substances are most properly so called, because
they underlie and are the subjects of everything else. Now the
same relation that subsists between primary substance and
everything else subsists also between the species and the genus
to which the primary substance belongs, on the one hand, and
every attribute which is not included within these, on the other.
For these are the subjects of all such. If we call an individual
man 'skilled in grammar', the predicate is applicable also to the
species and to the genus to which he belongs. This law holds good
in all cases.

It is a common characteristic of all sub. stance that it is never
present in a subject. For primary substance is neither present in
a subject nor predicated of a subject; while, with regard to
secondary substances, it is clear from the following arguments
(apart from others) that they are not present in a subject. For
'man' is predicated of the individual man, but is not present in
any subject: for manhood is not present in the individual man. In
the same way, 'animal' is also predicated of the individual man,
but is not present in him. Again, when a thing is present in a
subject, though the name may quite well be applied to that in
which it is present, the definition cannot be applied. Yet of
secondary substances, not only the name, but also the definition,
applies to the subject: we should use both the definition of the
species and that of the genus with reference to the individual
man. Thus substance cannot be present in a subject.

Yet this is not peculiar to substance, for it is also the case
that differentiae cannot be present in subjects. The
characteristics 'terrestrial' and 'two-footed' are predicated of
the species 'man', but not present in it. For they are not in
man. Moreover, the definition of the differentia may be
predicated of that of which the differentia itself is predicated.
For instance, if the characteristic 'terrestrial' is predicated
of the species 'man', the definition also of that characteristic
may be used to form the predicate of the species 'man': for 'man'
is terrestrial.

The fact that the parts of substances appear to be present in the
whole, as in a subject, should not make us apprehensive lest we
should have to admit that such parts are not substances: for in
explaining the phrase 'being present in a subject', we stated'
that we meant 'otherwise than as parts in a whole'.

It is the mark of substances and of differentiae that, in all
propositions of which they form the predicate, they are
predicated univocally. For all such propositions have for their
subject either the individual or the species. It is true that,
inasmuch as primary substance is not predicable of anything, it
can never form the predicate of any proposition. But of secondary
substances, the species is predicated of the individual, the
genus both of the species and of the individual. Similarly the
differentiae are predicated of the species and of the
individuals. Moreover, the definition of the species and that of
the genus are applicable to the primary substance, and that of
the genus to the species. For all that is predicated of the
predicate will be predicated also of the subject. Similarly, the
definition of the differentiae will be applicable to the species
and to the individuals. But it was stated above that the word
'univocal' was applied to those things which had both name and
definition in common. It is, therefore, established that in every
proposition, of which either substance or a differentia forms the
predicate, these are predicated univocally.

All substance appears to signify that which is individual. In the
case of primary substance this is indisputably true, for the
thing is a unit. In the case of secondary substances, when we
speak, for instance, of 'man' or 'animal', our form of speech
gives the impression that we are here also indicating that which
is individual, but the impression is not strictly true; for a
secondary substance is not an individual, but a class with a
certain qualification; for it is not one and single as a primary
substance is; the words 'man', 'animal', are predicable of more
than one subject.

Yet species and genus do not merely indicate quality, like the
term 'white'; 'white' indicates quality and nothing further, but
species and genus determine the quality with reference to a
substance: they signify substance qualitatively differentiated.
The determinate qualification covers a larger field in the case
of the genus that in that of the species: he who uses the word
'animal' is herein using a word of wider extension than he who
uses the word 'man'.

Another mark of substance is that it has no contrary. What could
be the contrary of any primary substance, such as the individual
man or animal? It has none. Nor can the species or the genus have
a contrary. Yet this characteristic is not peculiar to substance,
but is true of many other things, such as quantity. There is
nothing that forms the contrary of 'two cubits long' or of 'three
cubits long', or of 'ten', or of any such term. A man may contend
that 'much' is the contrary of 'little', or 'great' of 'small',
but of definite quantitative terms no contrary exists.

Substance, again, does not appear to admit of variation of
degree. I do not mean by this that one substance cannot be more
or less truly substance than another, for it has already been
stated' that this is the case; but that no single substance
admits of varying degrees within itself. For instance, one
particular substance, 'man', cannot be more or less man either
than himself at some other time or than some other man. One man
cannot be more man than another, as that which is white may be
more or less white than some other white object, or as that which
is beautiful may be more or less beautiful than some other
beautiful object. The same quality, moreover, is said to subsist
in a thing in varying degrees at different times. A body, being
white, is said to be whiter at one time than it was before, or,
being warm, is said to be warmer or less warm than at some other
time. But substance is not said to be more or less that which it
is: a man is not more truly a man at one time than he was before,
nor is anything, if it is substance, more or less what it is.
Substance, then, does not admit of variation of degree.

The most distinctive mark of substance appears to be that, while
remaining numerically one and the same, it is capable of
admitting contrary qualities. From among things other than
substance, we should find ourselves unable to bring forward any
which possessed this mark. Thus, one and the same colour cannot
be white and black. Nor can the same one action be good and bad:
this law holds good with everything that is not substance. But
one and the selfsame substance, while retaining its identity, is
yet capable of admitting contrary qualities. The same individual
person is at one time white, at another black, at one time warm,
at another cold, at one time good, at another bad. This capacity
is found nowhere else, though it might be maintained that a
statement or opinion was an exception to the rule. The same
statement, it is agreed, can be both true and false. For if the
statement 'he is sitting' is true, yet, when the person in
question has risen, the same statement will be false. The same
applies to opinions. For if any one thinks truly that a person is
sitting, yet, when that person has risen, this same opinion, if
still held, will be false. Yet although this exception may be
allowed, there is, nevertheless, a difference in the manner in
which the thing takes place. It is by themselves changing that
substances admit contrary qualities. It is thus that that which
was hot becomes cold, for it has entered into a different state.
Similarly that which was white becomes black, and that which was
bad good, by a process of change; and in the same way in all
other cases it is by changing that substances are capable of
admitting contrary qualities. But statements and opinions
themselves remain unaltered in all respects: it is by the
alteration in the facts of the case that the contrary quality
comes to be theirs. The statement 'he is sitting' remains
unaltered, but it is at one time true, at another false,
according to circumstances. What has been said of statements
applies also to opinions. Thus, in respect of the manner in which
the thing takes place, it is the peculiar mark of substance that
it should be capable of admitting contrary qualities; for it is
by itself changing that it does so.

If, then, a man should make this exception and contend that
statements and opinions are capable of admitting contrary
qualities, his contention is unsound. For statements and opinions
are said to have this capacity, not because they themselves
undergo modification, but because this modification occurs in the
case of something else. The truth or falsity of a statement
depends on facts, and not on any power on the part of the
statement itself of admitting contrary qualities. In short, there
is nothing which can alter the nature of statements and opinions.
As, then, no change takes place in themselves, these cannot be
said to be capable of admitting contrary qualities.

But it is by reason of the modification which takes place within
the substance itself that a substance is said to be capable of
admitting contrary qualities; for a substance admits within
itself either disease or health, whiteness or blackness. It is in
this sense that it is said to be capable of admitting contrary
qualities.

To sum up, it is a distinctive mark of substance, that, while
remaining numerically one and the same, it is capable of
admitting contrary qualities, the modification taking place
through a change in the substance itself.

Let these remarks suffice on the subject of substance.

Part 6

Quantity is either discrete or continuous. Moreover, some
quantities are such that each part of the whole has a relative
position to the other parts: others have within them no such
relation of part to part.

Instances of discrete quantities are number and speech; of
continuous, lines, surfaces, solids, and, besides these, time and
place.

In the case of the parts of a number, there is no common boundary
at which they join. For example: two fives make ten, but the two
fives have no common boundary, but are separate; the parts three
and seven also do not join at any boundary. Nor, to generalize,
would it ever be possible in the case of number that there should
be a common boundary among the parts; they are always separate.
Number, therefore, is a discrete quantity.

The same is true of speech. That speech is a quantity is evident:
for it is measured in long and short syllables. I mean here that
speech which is vocal. Moreover, it is a discrete quantity for
its parts have no common boundary. There is no common boundary at
which the syllables join, but each is separate and distinct from
the rest.

A line, on the other hand, is a continuous quantity, for it is
possible to find a common boundary at which its parts join. In
the case of the line, this common boundary is the point; in the
case of the plane, it is the line: for the parts of the plane
have also a common boundary. Similarly you can find a common
boundary in the case of the parts of a solid, namely either a
line or a plane.

Space and time also belong to this class of quantities. Time,
past, present, and future, forms a continuous whole. Space,
likewise, is a continuous quantity; for the parts of a solid
occupy a certain space, and these have a common boundary; it
follows that the parts of space also, which are occupied by the
parts of the solid, have the same common boundary as the parts of
the solid. Thus, not only time, but space also, is a continuous
quantity, for its parts have a common boundary.

Quantities consist either of parts which bear a relative position
each to each, or of parts which do not. The parts of a line bear
a relative position to each other, for each lies somewhere, and
it would be possible to distinguish each, and to state the
position of each on the plane and to explain to what sort of part
among the rest each was contiguous. Similarly the parts of a
plane have position, for it could similarly be stated what was
the position of each and what sort of parts were contiguous. The
same is true with regard to the solid and to space. But it would
be impossible to show that the arts of a number had a relative
position each to each, or a particular position, or to state what
parts were contiguous. Nor could this be done in the case of
time, for none of the parts of time has an abiding existence, and
that which does not abide can hardly have position. It would be
better to say that such parts had a relative order, in virtue of
one being prior to another. Similarly with number: in counting,
'one' is prior to 'two', and 'two' to 'three', and thus the parts
of number may be said to possess a relative order, though it
would be impossible to discover any distinct position for each.
This holds good also in the case of speech. None of its parts has
an abiding existence: when once a syllable is pronounced, it is
not possible to retain it, so that, naturally, as the parts do
not abide, they cannot have position. Thus, some quantities
consist of parts which have position, and some of those which
have not.

Strictly speaking, only the things which I have mentioned belong
to the category of quantity: everything else that is called
quantitative is a quantity in a secondary sense. It is because we
have in mind some one of these quantities, properly so called,
that we apply quantitative terms to other things. We speak of
what is white as large, because the surface over which the white
extends is large; we speak of an action or a process as lengthy,
because the time covered is long; these things cannot in their
own right claim the quantitative epithet. For instance, should
any one explain how long an action was, his statement would be
made in terms of the time taken, to the effect that it lasted a
year, or something of that sort. In the same way, he would
explain the size of a white object in terms of surface, for he
would state the area which it covered. Thus the things already
mentioned, and these alone, are in their intrinsic nature
quantities; nothing else can claim the name in its own right,
but, if at all, only in a secondary sense.

Quantities have no contraries. In the case of definite quantities
this is obvious; thus, there is nothing that is the contrary of
'two cubits long' or of 'three cubits long', or of a surface, or
of any such quantities. A man might, indeed, argue that 'much'
was the contrary of 'little', and 'great' of 'small'. But these
are not quantitative, but relative; things are not great or small
absolutely, they are so called rather as the result of an act of
comparison. For instance, a mountain is called small, a grain
large, in virtue of the fact that the latter is greater than
others of its kind, the former less. Thus there is a reference
here to an external standard, for if the terms 'great' and
'small' were used absolutely, a mountain would never be called
small or a grain large. Again, we say that there are many people
in a village, and few in Athens, although those in the city are
many times as numerous as those in the village: or we say that a
house has many in it, and a theatre few, though those in the
theatre far outnumber those in the house. The terms 'two cubits
long, "three cubits long,' and so on indicate quantity, the terms
'great' and 'small' indicate relation, for they have reference to
an external standard. It is, therefore, plain that these are to
be classed as relative.

Again, whether we define them as quantitative or not, they have
no contraries: for how can there be a contrary of an attribute
which is not to be apprehended in or by itself, but only by
reference to something external? Again, if 'great' and 'small'
are contraries, it will come about that the same subject can
admit contrary qualities at one and the same time, and that
things will themselves be contrary to themselves. For it happens
at times that the same thing is both small and great. For the
same thing may be small in comparison with one thing, and great
in comparison with another, so that the same thing comes to be
both small and great at one and the same time, and is of such a
nature as to admit contrary qualities at one and the same moment.
Yet it was agreed, when substance was being discussed, that
nothing admits contrary qualities at one and the same moment. For
though substance is capable of admitting contrary qualities, yet
no one is at the same time both sick and healthy, nothing is at
the same time both white and black. Nor is there anything which
is qualified in contrary ways at one and the same time.

Moreover, if these were contraries, they would themselves be
contrary to themselves. For if 'great' is the contrary of
'small', and the same thing is both great and small at the same
time, then 'small' or 'great' is the contrary of itself. But this
is impossible. The term 'great', therefore, is not the contrary
of the term 'small', nor 'much' of 'little'. And even though a
man should call these terms not relative but quantitative, they
would not have contraries.

It is in the case of space that quantity most plausibly appears
to admit of a contrary. For men define the term 'above' as the
contrary of 'below', when it is the region at the centre they
mean by 'below'; and this is so, because nothing is farther from
the extremities of the universe than the region at the centre.
Indeed, it seems that in defining contraries of every kind men
have recourse to a spatial metaphor, for they say that those
things are contraries which, within the same class, are separated
by the greatest possible distance.

Quantity does not, it appears, admit of variation of degree. One
thing cannot be two cubits long in a greater degree than another.
Similarly with regard to number: what is 'three' is not more
truly three than what is 'five' is five; nor is one set of three
more truly three than another set. Again, one period of time is
not said to be more truly time than another. Nor is there any
other kind of quantity, of all that have been mentioned, with
regard to which variation of degree can be predicated. The
category of quantity, therefore, does not admit of variation of
degree.

The most distinctive mark of quantity is that equality and
inequality are predicated of it. Each of the aforesaid quantities
is said to be equal or unequal. For instance, one solid is said
to be equal or unequal to another; number, too, and time can have
these terms applied to them, indeed can all those kinds of
quantity that have been mentioned.

That which is not a quantity can by no means, it would seem, be
termed equal or unequal to anything else. One particular
disposition or one particular quality, such as whiteness, is by
no means compared with another in terms of equality and
inequality but rather in terms of similarity. Thus it is the
distinctive mark of quantity that it can be called equal and
unequal.
